[Last updated: 2025-11-04] - This document is now retired, please reference the Core Rules: Patch
Notes and Card Errata.

Riftbound Origins FAQ

Hi everyone! It's been a little bit since we released the Core Rules and in that time, we have received
really valuable feedback and helpful questions that led to some refinements and updates to the
Riftbound rules. We have a full rules update coming soon, but we want you to know how to play your
cards--so we're releasing this FAQ earlier than the rules update!

This document has two sections:
     Frequently Asked Questions about the rules and interactions you'll commonly encounter
     Revised and Clarified Rulings about more complicated interactions and cards we've reviewed
         since the original Core Rules were released

As part of these revised and clarified rulings, we have also updated some card wordings (this is called
errata) and we'll put those updated wordings into our database of official card wordings, Watcher.
(You'll soon be able to access Watcher and its official wordings through our website and also the
Riftbound API.)

What's in this document is our current best representation of the upcoming errata, but the final
wordings may vary slightly from those described here. . The upcoming full rules update will be
accompanied by definitive Watcher errata text.

One other note about errata: Errata may impact the effective power level of cards, but we have no plans
to issue errata strictly for power level reasons--only to make cards work within the rules and as
intended.

Throughout this document, we use some specific shorthand to represent symbols in card text. Here's a
short guide:

     [E] means "exhaust" (previously, you may have seen this as [T])
     [M] means "Might" (previously, you may have seen this as [S])
     [A] means "one power of any domain/color"
     [C] means "one power of this card's domain/color"

Ok, let's get into it!

SECTION 1 -- Frequently Asked Questions

Scoring

Q: How do I score? How are conquer and hold different?
When you take control of a battlefield you didn't already control and which you haven't scored yet this
turn, you score 1 point. This is called conquering.

If you control a battlefield at the start of your turn, you score 1 point. This is called holding.
[Last updated: 2025-11-04] - This document is now retired, please reference the Core Rules: Patch
Notes and Card Errata.
Q: How does the last point work?
In order to win the game, you need to score the last point (the 8th point in most games, 11th in 2v2). If
you try to score the last point by conquering, you will only get the last point if you have already scored
all of the other battlefields this turn. Otherwise, you'll draw a card instead.

So, in an 8 point 1v1 game with two battlefields:
     If you are at 6 points and conquer both battlefields, you'll go to 7 and then to 8 and win.
     If you are at 7 points and conquer both battlefields, you'll draw a card for the first one, and then
         go to 8 and win.
     If you are at 6 points, hold one battlefield to 7, and conquer the other to go to 8 and win.
     If you are at 7 points, you can hold one to go to 8 and win.

In an 8 point 4 player Free-for-All game with three battlefields:
     If you are at 5 points and conquer all 3 battlefields, you'll go to 6 then 7 then 8 and win.
     If you are at 6 points and conquer all 3 battlefields, you'll go to 7 then draw 1, then 8 and win.
     If you are at 5 points, hold 1 battlefield to 6, then conquer the other two, you'll go to 7 and then 8
         and win.

Movement

Q: What's the standard move?
Every unit has the natural ability to move itself from base to battlefield, or back from battlefield to base,
during your Main Phase (on your own turn, outside of a showdown). To do this, you pay the cost
(exhausting the unit) and then move the unit. If a unit is exhausted, you can't move it using the standard
move.

Q: Do I have to exhaust a unit when I move it with a spell or ability?
Moving a unit with a spell or ability won't change its ready or exhausted state unless the effect specifies
that it does. The cost of using a unit's standard move is to exhaust that unit, but that isn't a cost or
effect of other moves.

Q: Can I move multiple units together to a battlefield?
Yes, you can use the standard move of your units all at once to move them as a group together to the
same legal destination. To do this, exhaust them all (the cost of the standard move) and then move them
to the destination, then resolve any move effects, then start a showdown if needed.

Q: Does Ganking allow a unit to move an extra time? When can I use the Ganking ability?
No, Ganking is an extra way to use the standard move. Normally, when a unit uses the standard move, it
can only move between base and battlefield. If a unit has Ganking, it can also move between two
battlefields. You can move units with Ganking alongside other units that are moving with the standard
move, as long as the destination is legal for all units moving as a group.

Q: Can I move more units in before a combat starts using a spell or ability?
[Last updated: 2025-11-04] - This document is now retired, please reference the Core Rules: Patch
Notes and Card Errata.
If you don't move units together as a group using the standard move, then you can only move additional
units afterward if you use a spell or ability with the Action or Reaction keywords, after the combat starts
as part of the showdown.
[Last updated: 2025-11-04] - This document is now retired, please reference the Core Rules: Patch
Notes and Card Errata.

Combat

Q: What happens when both sides in combat have the same total Might?
In this case, both sides will assign damage to the other side equal to the total Might of all units there,
which will end up killing all units on both sides. No units will remain to control the battlefield, leaving it
open and nobody will score a point.

Q: What happens if units from both sides in combat survive, either because of Kayn or a stun?
In this case, both sides will still assign damage to the other side as normal (stunned units will not deal
damage). Units will still die if they are assigned damage equal to or greater than their Might (unless they
don't die, for example because of Kayn's ability). Then if units from both sides remain alive at the
battlefield, any remaining attacking units will be recalled to base and the defending player will maintain
control (no score, though).

Q: Do units heal from combat damage? When?
Yes, units everywhere will heal from damage at the end of every combat and at the end of every turn.
That means if a unit survives through damage assignment, it'll be back to zero damage at the end of the
combat.

Resources

Q: How do runes work? What are energy and power? Can I recycle an exhausted rune?
Yes, each rune has two abilities, and you can use both of them in the same turn:

     You can exhaust a rune to produce 1 energy. Energy is used to pay numerical costs, and doesn't
         have a domain/color associated with it, even though the runes used to generate it do.

     You can recycle a rune (even an exhausted one) to produce 1 power of that rune's domain/color.
         Power is used to pay color symbol costs.

Rune abilities have the Reaction keyword, which means they can be used anytime.

Q: Is there a limit to how many runes I can have?
Yes, all Riftbound decks are built with exactly 12 runes, so once you have channeled all of them, you
can't get more runes on the board.

Q: Do Seals add energy? Do Seals enter exhausted like units do?
No, Seals can't generate energy. They can be exhausted to produce 1 power of Seal's domain/color.
Since you don't recycle them to make the power resource, you will be able to ready them and use them
again on future turns.

Q: How much do I pay for an Accelerate cost?
Accelerate costs 1 energy and also 1 power of the unit's domain/color. Usually you'll do this by taking an
additional ready rune of the appropriate domain/color, exhaust it, and then recycle that same rune.

For example, if a fury/red unit normally costs [3] (or 3 energy) and you want to accelerate it, its total
cost would be [4][R] (or 4 energy and 1 power of the fury/red domain).
[Last updated: 2025-11-04] - This document is now retired, please reference the Core Rules: Patch
Notes and Card Errata.
[Last updated: 2025-11-04] - This document is now retired, please reference the Core Rules: Patch
Notes and Card Errata.

Keywords

Q: What does Mighty mean?
A unit is Mighty if it has 5 or more Might. Units don't have the keyword "Mighty"--as long as a unit has 5
or more Might, the unit is Mighty. When you play a unit with 5 or more Might, you can exhaust your
Relentless Storm Legend to channel a rune exhausted.

Q: Do I get my Legion effect when I play a token or use an ability?
No, Legion will only be active if you've played a card this turn. Tokens are not cards, and abilities aren't
either.

Hidden

Q: How do I hide a card with Hidden?
You can hide a card with the Hidden keyword from your hand instead of paying its normal cost. To do
this, you must already control a battlefield (have units there) to hide the card at. Hiding a card costs [A]
(one power of any domain/color) and you place the card face down at that battlefield.

Q: When I hide a card, does that count for Legion?
Hiding isn't playing, and doesn't count as playing a card for abilities like Legion.

Q: If I hide a card, and then my opponent uses a spell to move a unit to that battlefield that same turn,
can I play the card I hid?
No. You can't play cards the same turn you hide them.

Q: If I hid a card last turn, can I play that card even if I'm not reacting to another spell or ability?
You can play them any time you can normally play a reaction, which includes when you're not actually
reacting to anything. You're not restricted to playing them during showdowns at their own battlefield.

Q: Do I have to play a unit I hid to that battlefield? Or can I play it to my base?
A hidden unit must be played to that battlefield if able.

Q: If I play a spell with targets that I hid, do I have to choose those targets from the battlefield I hid it
at?
Yes. If a hidden spell or a play effect of a hidden permanent chooses any targets, those targets must be
chosen from among options at that battlefield, unless the ability explicitly restricts targeting in a way
that makes this impossible. (We'll talk more about this later for specific cards.)

Q: If I play a card I hid, and that card's effects include playing additional units (for example, tokens),
can I play them anywhere?
No. If a hidden spell or a play effect of a hidden permanent causes you to play a unit, you must choose
to have that unit enter the board at that battlefield.

Timing

Q: Can I use the exhaust ability of a unit in combat?
[Last updated: 2025-11-04] - This document is now retired, please reference the Core Rules: Patch
Notes and Card Errata.
The cost of using an ability with the exhaust symbol is to exhaust that unit. If you just moved a unit into
combat using the standard move, then you already exhausted the unit as the cost to do that, so you
won't be able to use its ability with the exhaust symbol that same turn. If the unit is defending, it might
be ready and then you can use abilities that require exhausting it in combat (as long as those abilities
have the Action or Reaction keyword).

Q: When can I use Vi's ability to recycle cards from my trash to increase her Might?
Abilities can only be used in your Main Phase, outside of a showdown, unless they have the Action or
Reaction keyword. Vi's ability does not, so it can't be used in combat/showdown.

Q: Can I use my Legend ability on my opponent's turn?
Abilities can only be used in your Main Phase, outside of a showdown, unless they have the Action or
Reaction keyword. Some Legends don't have these keywords, so those can't be used on an opponent's
turn.

Q: I have a Reaction spell. Can I play it at the end of my opponent's turn?
No. The only time you can do this is if another ability triggers at the end of your opponent's turn, such
as the Dark Child - Starter legend.

Q: In a free-for-all, can I play Actions and Reactions in a showdown that I don't have units at?
Yes. Starting with the player who contested control/the attack, players each get a chance to play an
Action or Reaction. Other players can then react with Reactions, but once everyone passes, the next
player in turn order can play their own Action or Reaction. Continue like this until all players have
passed on an empty chain, and then move to the end of the showdown.

Miscellaneous

Q: Is there a maximum hand size?
No, you can have any number of cards in your hand.

Q: Is there a maximum number of units I can have in my base? On a battlefield?
No. You can have any number of units in a location.

Q: What happens when I run out of cards in my Main Deck?
If you run out of cards in your Main Deck, and then you need to draw 1, you will Burn Out. This means
you take your Trash, recycle it into your deck, shuffle, and then choose an opponent to score 1 point.

If you have no Trash to recycle when you Burn Out, then you'll grant an infinite number of points and
pick an opponent to win the game.

Q: What happens when I run out of cards in my Rune Deck?
Nothing. You can't channel any more runes, but there's no penalty beyond that.

Q: Do I put my Chosen Champion back in the Champion Zone when it leaves the board?
[Last updated: 2025-11-04] - This document is now retired, please reference the Core Rules: Patch
Notes and Card Errata.
No. Once you play a Champion from your Champion Zone, it acts like any other card from your Main
Deck. When it dies, it goes to the Trash.
[Last updated: 2025-11-04] - This document is now retired, please reference the Core Rules: Patch
Notes and Card Errata.

SECTION 2 -- Revised and Clarified Rulings

Cards that Tell You Play Other Cards

Q: What happens when a card like The Harrowing instructs me to play another card during its
resolution? Do I play it while the other spell or ability is still resolving? What if I can't play it?
To clarify the timing of these and other effects, we're introducing
the idea of pending items on the chain. When you play a spell, or
use an ability, they will be pending until you finish the steps of
playing them before priority passes. When a spell or ability
instructs you to play a card or play a token--or when a triggered
ability has its trigger condition met--during the playing or
resolution of another card or ability, you'll perform the very first
step of playing that card or using that ability by putting it on the
chain, then stop. This chain item is still pending for now. You'll then
process the rest of whatever is currently happening, including
putting any other pending items on the chain above it.

Then, in the order the items were put on the chain, each pending
item's controller goes through the other steps of putting it on the
chain: Make choices, pay costs, and evaluate legality. Only then is
the pending item considered to have entered the chain. If it's legal
to play and it's a unit or gear, it resolves immediately as usual.
Once all pending items are done being fully added to the chain, play continues, and any items that
remain on the chain can be reacted to. The most recent items to be placed on the chain will resolve first
as usual.

If at any point during that process that player is unable to proceed with playing the pending chain item
for any reason, the item is removed from the chain and, if it's a card, is put back where it came from.
This won't happen very often--if you start the process of playing a card, you'll almost always be able to
legally finish it--but it's a necessary failsafe to handle corner cases.

Q: What about cards like Blind Fury and Promising Future, which let players look at or reveal cards
from the top of a deck, play one, and recycle the rest? If I can't play that card, where does it go? It
sounds like it's too late for it to be recycled as part of "the rest."
Hey, you're pretty sharp! For most cards that let you play something, it's easy to put the card back
where it came from if you can't play it. The Harrowing would put it back in your trash, Ava Achiever
would put it back in your hand, and so on. But when the card came out of a deck, which is both secret
and randomized, it's not so simple.

To provide a clear and easy answer to this question, four cards in set 1 that let you play other cards
from decks are receiving errata. They'll each banish the card before instructing a player to play it. If the
card can't be played for any reason, it just stays banished. This is a small functional change, but it's one
we feel is well worth it to avoid the fuss of getting these cards back into a deck somehow.
[Last updated: 2025-11-04] - This document is now retired, please reference the Core Rules: Patch
Notes and Card Errata.
 Baited Hook (revised text)

     [1][C], [E]: Kill a friendly unit. Look at the top 5 cards of
     your Main Deck. You may banish a unit from among them
     that has Might up to 1 more than the killed unit and play it,
     ignoring its cost. Then recycle the rest.

 Blind Fury (revised text)
     [Action] (Play on your turn or in showdowns.)
     Each opponent reveals the top card of their Main Deck.
     Choose one and banish it, then play it, ignoring its cost.
     Then recycle the rest.
[Last updated: 2025-11-04] - This document is now retired, please reference the Core Rules: Patch
Notes and Card Errata.
 Dazzling Aurora (revised text)

     At the end of your turn, reveal cards from the top of your
     Main Deck until you reveal a unit and banish it. Play it,
     ignoring its cost, and recycle the rest.

 Promising Future (revised text)
     Each player looks at the top 5 cards of their Main Deck,
     banishes one, then recycles the rest. Starting with the next
     player, each player plays those cards, ignoring Energy
     costs. (They must still pay Power costs.)

Q: So what exactly happens when someone plays Promising Future?
Start with the player whose turn it is--probably Promising Future's controller. That player looks at their
top 5 cards, banishes one of them, and recycles the other 4. Then each other player in turn order
repeats this process. Each player can see which cards the players before them have chosen. Then,
starting with the next player in turn order this time, those players put the cards they chose onto the
chain as pending items, with the player whose turn it is putting their item on the chain last.
[Last updated: 2025-11-04] - This document is now retired, please reference the Core Rules: Patch
Notes and Card Errata.
Then Promising Future finishes resolving, and the players finish adding their pending items to the chain
in the same order they were put there, ignoring Energy costs but still paying Power costs. They must
pay mandatory additional costs (like the cost of Cruel Patron), and may choose to pay optional
additional costs (like Accelerate).

Each card that's a unit or gear resolves immediately, which may cause other things (such as play
effects) to be added to the top of the chain as pending items. Any cards that can't be played for any
reason remain banished.

Once this process is done, any units or gear that were successfully played this way will be on the
board, while spells chosen this way will all be on the chain in the same order they were put onto it. (This
may result in spells that don't have Action or Reaction being on the chain above other items, which is
usually not possible. That's fine.) Then, resolve the chain as normal.

Q: What about Nocturne? Doesn't he also let you play a card from the top of a deck?
Great question! Nocturne is his own thing. Speaking of which...

Nocturne, Horrifying

Q: OK, so what about Nocturne? How does his ability work? Is it a triggered ability? Can I use it if I
"reveal" him, or only if I "look at" him?
Nocturne has a few problems we'd like to address.

     His ability is worded like a triggered ability ("when"), but it can't really work like one. By the time
         a triggered ability could go on the chain, be reacted to, and resolve, you wouldn't be looking at
         Nocturne anymore.

     He has the same problem that the above cards do: you're trying to play a card from a deck (in
         this case, Nocturne himself), and it's hard to put him back there if you try to play him but can't for
         some reason.

     He is intended to be usable any time you're looking at the front faces of cards from the top of
         your deck, whether the effect in question says to "look at" them or "reveal" them. The rules will
         be changed to clarify that last one--they will now explain that to "reveal" means the same thing
         as "allow all players to look at."

Nocturne is receiving errata to solve these problems and bring him in line with his intended function.
This errata makes it clear that this ability is not a triggered ability, and it uses banishment as a holding
zone. It also specifies that revealing and looking both count; although we are handling that part at the
rules level, we also want card text to reflect it unambiguously.
[Last updated: 2025-11-04] - This document is now retired, please reference the Core Rules: Patch
Notes and Card Errata.
 Nocturne, Horrifying (revised text)

     [Ganking] (I can move from battlefield to battlefield.)
     As you look at or reveal me from the top of your deck, you
     may banish me. If you do, you may play me for [A].

Q: So how exactly does this ability work?
The process starts as you look at or reveal cards from the top of your
Main Deck due to an effect. Let's use Stacked Deck as an example.
You play Stacked Deck and look at the top 3 cards of your deck.
Nocturne is among them. You now get to choose whether to banish
him or not. If you choose to banish him, you immediately begin the
process of playing him from banishment, placing him on the chain as
a pending item. Then you continue resolving Stacked Deck. There
are only 2 cards left of the original 3; you'll choose one to put into
your hand and recycle the other one. Then, since Stacked Deck has
finished resolving, you'll finish the steps of putting Nocturne onto the
chain from banishment, paying [A] (that's one power of any type)
instead of his base cost. As usual for units, he'll resolve immediately
and enter the board exhausted. If you weren't able to play him for
any reason, he'll just stay banished.

Q: If I reveal multiple Nocturnes, can I play more than one? What if
all 3 of the cards I look at for Stacked Deck are Nocturnes and I play all of them?
Yes, you can play more than one Nocturne at a time this way. If there aren't any eligible cards left for the
original effect you were resolving, any further instructions will be ignored. So if you reveal Stacked
Deck, see 3 Nocturnes, and opt to banish and play all of them, you won't put any cards into your hand,
nor will you recycle any cards. You will, however, have 3 Nocturnes.

Q: So if Promising Future resolves and one or more players choose to banish Nocturne from the
cards they looked at, what happens?
As you go around in turn order and each player looks at their top 5, they can choose to banish one or
more Nocturnes before they banish a card with Promising Future. Any such Nocturnes will go on the
[Last updated: 2025-11-04] - This document is now retired, please reference the Core Rules: Patch
Notes and Card Errata.
chain as pending items before whatever that player chooses with Promising Future. They'll remain
pending through the whole process of resolving Promising Future, then at the appropriate point they'll
be fully placed on the chain and (because they're units) will resolve immediately.

Q: What about Dazzling Aurora? If I reveal Nocturne, do I get to play him and keep going?
No, Dazzling Aurora stops when it finds Nocturne. Nocturne is revealed, then you may choose to banish
him or not. If you banish him, you can play him for [A] using his own ability. If you don't, you can play
him for free using Dazzling Aurora's ability (probably better, but you do you). Either way, you revealed a
unit, so you don't keep going.

Baited Hook

Q: What happens if I use an effect like Unlicensed Armory to
prevent the death of the friendly unit I chose to kill with Baited
Hook?
Baited Hook kills a unit, then uses information about "the killed
unit." If you prevent that unit's death, there's no killed unit, so
Baited Hook can't evaluate its Might. As a result, the check for the
Might of the "killed unit" returns a null value, and you're not able to
play any unit. If the unit is killed before the ability of Baited Hook
resolves, the outcome is the same.

Printing Errors
Convergent Mutation

Q: The English version of this card is missing "this turn," but the Chinese version includes it. Which
is correct?
The English version is a printing error. Convergent Mutation will receive errata to correct this oversight.
Meanwhile, the Chinese version uses "becomes" language where the English version uses "increase."
We have opted to keep the "increase" wording from English, as these wordings work slightly differently.
[Last updated: 2025-11-04] - This document is now retired, please reference the Core Rules: Patch
Notes and Card Errata.
 Convergent Mutation (revised text)

     [Reaction] (Play any time, even before spells and abilities
     resolve.)
     Choose a friendly unit. This turn, increase its Might to the
     Might of another friendly unit.

Dune Drake

Q: What about Dune Drake? It's missing "this turn" in both English and Chinese.
This is also a printing error, one that wasn't caught in time to fix the Chinese version. It will also receive
errata.
 Dune Drake (revised text)

     When I attack, give me +2 [M] this turn if there is a ready
     enemy unit here.

Ravenborn Tome

Q: Is Ravenborn Tome supposed to be able to grant bonus damage to spells I play on later turns?
No. This is another card that's missing "this turn."
[Last updated: 2025-11-04] - This document is now retired, please reference the Core Rules: Patch
Notes and Card Errata.
 Ravenborn Tome (revised text)

     [E]: The next spell you play this turn deals 1 Bonus Damage.
     (Each instance of damage the spell deals is increased by
     1.)

Making Choices for Spells and Abilities (Targeting)

Q: Some spells and abilities require choosing units, gear, or other things for them to affect. The rules
say some of these choices are made when I put the spell or ability on the chain, but it seems like
some of them can't be or shouldn't be. How do I know the difference?
Riftbound uses a set of contextual rules rather than specific words on cards to determine which choices
are made as a card is played. When a spell or ability chooses something else to affect, the rules refer to
those choices as "targets." Targets must be chosen as the spell or ability is placed on the chain, and
they must still meet all targeting requirements as the spell or ability resolves.

The next version of the rules will have more rigorous guidelines on which choices are targets, which
we'll summarize here. For the most part, these rules don't change what choices are targets, they just
spell it out more.

An object or player mentioned in a spell or ability is a target if all of the following are true:
    1. something publicly visible to all players;
    2. that you and you alone choose;
    3. that isn't part of a targeting restriction, cost, trigger condition, replacement effect, or an action
         that "must" be taken.

This explanation sounds complicated, but in general, most things that are affected by a spell or ability
are targets. For a more precise breakdown of what each of those entails, see the Appendix.

There are two other choices that are not considered targets, but are made while putting something on
the chain. Those are:

    1. The location to which a unit will be played (normally either your base or a battlefield you control).
    2. The destination or destinations for any spell or ability whose effect is moving one or more units,

         whether or not it mentions a destination by name.
[Last updated: 2025-11-04] - This document is now retired, please reference the Core Rules: Patch
Notes and Card Errata.
[Last updated: 2025-11-04] - This document is now retired, please reference the Core Rules: Patch
Notes and Card Errata.

Charm

Q: So as I play Charm, I have to say not only what unit I'm moving it,
but where I'm moving it to?
Yes. This is a change from prior rulings. This means that move effects
that don't mention a destination (like Charm) work the same way as
those that do (like Showstopper).

Q: What about when I use a unit's standard move? Does that target?
No. The standard move is a special action that doesn't use the chain
and can't be reacted to, so the concept of targeting doesn't apply. You
announce which units are moving and what destination they're moving
to, then move those units there immediately.

Spells with Multiple Targets

Q: If a spell has multiple targets, like Back to Back, do I need to
choose targets for all of them to put the spell on the chain?

Yes. You must choose two different friendly units to play Back to Back,
although it still resolves even if one or both of its targets are no longer
valid when it resolves.

This is also true for activated abilities that have multiple targets.

Abilities with Multiple Targets

Q: What about triggered abilities with multiple targets, like Sona,
Harmonious?
The same is true of triggered abilities with multiple targets. For
triggered abilities, however, this causes some cards--Sona in
particular--to work in unintended ways.

Going forward, we'll put the words "up to" on most triggered abilities.
In the meantime, several cards are receiving errata so that their
triggered abilities behave intuitively.
[Last updated: 2025-11-04] - This document is now retired, please reference the Core Rules: Patch
Notes and Card Errata.
 Sona, Harmonious (revised text)

     At the end of your turn, if I'm at a battlefield, ready up to 4
     friendly runes.

 Targon's Peak (revised text)
     When you conquer here, ready up to 2 runes at the end of
     this turn.
[Last updated: 2025-11-04] - This document is now retired, please reference the Core Rules: Patch
Notes and Card Errata.
 Dark Child - Starter (revised text)

     At the end of your turn, ready up to 2 runes.

 Kinkou Monk (revised text)
     When you play me, buff up to two other friendly units.
     (Each one that doesn't have a buff gets a +1 [M] buff.)

Sigil of the Storm

Q: Does Sigil of the Storm target? If it does, can I react to the trigger by recycling the chosen rune for
Power? That seems weird.
Sigil of the Storm is receiving errata using a new wording to make sure that it doesn't target. This uses a
new wording, "must," that indicates an action that must be taken. None of the choices made for such an
ability are targets, and they are chosen as the ability resolves.
[Last updated: 2025-11-04] - This document is now retired, please reference the Core Rules: Patch
Notes and Card Errata.
 Sigil of the Storm (revised text)

     When you conquer here, you must recycle one of your
     runes.

Fox-Fire

Q: Are the units I choose for Fox-Fire targets? What happens if some of them gain Might as a
reaction?
Fox-Fire is unusual (currently unique) in that its targets' legality is evaluated as a group rather than
individually. The updated rules will explain how to handle this.

As you play Fox-Fire, you'll choose any number of units at a single
battlefield whose current total Might is 4 or less. Then, after any
appropriate Reactions, Fox-Fire resolves and checks target legality
again. If the units no longer meet the group targeting restriction
because some of them have gained Might, you choose any number of
the original targets whose Might adds up to no more than 4.

Here are a few examples to illustrate. In all of them, Fox-Fire initially
chooses 4 Recruits with 1 Might each, and some of those Recruits
have gained Might before Fox-Fire resolves.

     One Recruit gets +1 Might. You can choose either to exclude
         that Recruit and kill the other three (total Might 3), or exclude
         one other Recruit and kill the 2 Might Recruit and two 1 Might
         Recruits (total Might 4).

     One Recruit gets +3 Might. You can choose either to exclude
         that Recruit and kill the other three (total Might 3), or exclude
         the other three and kill just that one (total Might 4).

     One Recruit gets +6 Might. You must choose to exclude that Recruit, because its Might alone
         takes you above your total. You must kill the other three (total Might 3).

     Two Recruits get +1 Might. You can either kill the two 2 Might Recruits, or one 2 Might Recruit
         and the two 1 Might Recruits.
[Last updated: 2025-11-04] - This document is now retired, please reference the Core Rules: Patch
Notes and Card Errata.

     All four Recruits get +1 Might. You must choose two of the Recruits to kill, and the other two will
         survive.

     All four Recruits get +3 Might. You choose one Recruit to kill (total Might 4) and exclude the rest.
     All four Recruits get +6 Might. You no longer have a valid subset of targets, because even a

         single Recruit takes you over the Might limit. Fox-Fire does nothing.

Q: Does that mean if the units I originally chose die, move, or lose Might as a Reaction, I can pick
additional units at that battlefield to kill?
No. You can only kill units from among the ones you initially chose.

Dragon's Rage

Q: Dragon's Rage also seems a little confusing under these targeting rules. What do I have to choose
as I play it?
Dragon's Rage works a little better now that move destinations are chosen at the same time as targets,
but it's still kind of strange. Accordingly, it will receive errata with a new template for "reflexive
triggers"--triggered abilities within another spell or ability that create a new ability that goes on the
chain separately from the original spell or ability. To show you what that looks like, here's the updated
text:

 Dragon's Rage (revised text)
     Move an enemy unit. Then do this: Choose another enemy
     unit at its destination. They deal damage equal to their
     Mights to each other.

That "do this" wording (or similar) tells you that what follows is a separate instruction from the original.
As you start to play Dragon's Rage, you only need to choose an enemy unit and a battlefield to move it
to. Then, assuming Dragon's Rage resolves, you'll put a separate triggered ability on the chain,
choosing another enemy unit at its destination (if one is available). That triggered ability can then be
responded to separately. If there's no enemy there, or if you didn't actually move the unit you chose for
any reason (and therefore there's no "its destination" to reference), the trigger isn't put on the chain at
all.
[Last updated: 2025-11-04] - This document is now retired, please reference the Core Rules: Patch
Notes and Card Errata.
This isn't a tool we expect to use often, but it lets us make sure that cards like Dragon's Rage offer
chances for interaction and decision at points that feel appropriate.

Disintegrate

Q: How does Disintegrate work? Doesn't the damage kill the unit after the spell has resolved?
Disintegrate is a funny one--it looks like it works, but the more you understand the rules, the more it
looks like it might not work after all. Units dealt lethal damage by a spell aren't killed immediately,
they're killed right after that spell resolves. To solve this little rules conundrum, we're using the new
reflexive trigger wording here as well.

 Disintegrate (revised text)
     Action (Play on your turn or in showdowns.)
     Deal 3 to a unit at a battlefield. If this kills it, do this: draw 1.

Falling Star & Icathian Rain

Q: That "do this" wording is a lot like the one on Falling Star and Icathian Rain. Are those reflexive
triggers too?
Yes! This means that these two spells no longer actually have any targets of their own--you play them
with no choices. If they resolve, you then put each instance of their reflexive trigger on the chain
separately, choosing the same or
different units as you like. You'll pay
Deflect costs for each one as you put
each trigger on the chain, and then the
triggered abilities will resolve one at a
time in the opposite order they were
put on the chain. This is a big change
to how those two cards work, but we
think it actually matches how many
people expected them to work when
they first saw them.
[Last updated: 2025-11-04] - This document is now retired, please reference the Core Rules: Patch
Notes and Card Errata.

Twisted Fate

Q: Twisted Fate too?
Yes, Twisted Fate's "do one of the following" is also a reflexive trigger.

2v2 and Friendly Units

Q: In 2v2, can my ally and I bring the same legend? What about the same battlefields?
No and no. The updated rules will clarify that you and your ally must bring different legends and
different battlefields.

Q: When a card refers to a friendly unit, what does that mean?
In most games of Riftbound, "friendly [something]" means the same thing as "[something] you control."
In our 2v2 team format, however, "friendly" includes both things you control and things your ally
controls.

Q: What about "your units?" Is that shared between teammates too?
No. "Your" refers exclusively to things you control (on the board or on the chain) or things you own
(everywhere else). Your units are the units you control, your spells are the spells you play, your trash is
the one where you put the cards you own, and so on.

Q: Can my ally and I share control of battlefields?
No, you and your ally can never have units at the same battlefield. A maximum of two players can have
units at a battlefield. Those players must be opponents, and a combat will result.

Q: Can I move my ally's unit to my own base with Unforgiven, the Yasuo legend? Does that mean it's
mine now?
No, you can't do this. Any time you try to move something you don't control into your base, it moves to
its controller's base instead. This is hard-coded in the rules, similar to how cards you own can ever be
in your own hand, trash, or deck, even if something tries to put them in a different when. Similarly, you
and your ally can never both have units at the same battlefield; the rules prevent any move that tries to
make that happen.

A few cards, including Unforgiven, were printed with English text that suggests misleading outcomes in
these situations (but were printed correctly in Chinese). Those cards are receiving errata to clarify what
they can and can't do.
[Last updated: 2025-11-04] - This document is now retired, please reference the Core Rules: Patch
Notes and Card Errata.
 The Syren (revised text)

     [1], [E]: Move a friendly unit at a battlefield to its base.

 Unforgiven (revised text)
     [2], [E]: Move a friendly unit to or from its base.
[Last updated: 2025-11-04] - This document is now retired, please reference the Core Rules: Patch
Notes and Card Errata.
 Portal Rescue (revised text)

     Banish a friendly unit, then its owner plays it to their base,
     ignoring its cost.

For The Syren and Unforgiven, this is not functional errata, just a clarification. For Portal Rescue, this is
a slight functional change to its interaction with cards like Possession. Previously, you could use Portal
Rescue to re-play a card you took with Possession and retain control of it, but under the new wording
this would give it back to its owner.
Another card, Tideturner, is receiving similar errata and another clarification (see below).

Cards with Hidden

Q: When you play a card from hidden, it gains several additional restrictions. The rules were
somewhat unclear on this.
That's not a question. But alright, let's spell out the restrictions more clearly:

     A hidden unit must be played to that battlefield if able.
     If a hidden spell or a play effect of a hidden permanent chooses any targets, those targets must

         be chosen from among options at that battlefield, unless the ability explicitly restricts targeting in
         a way that makes this impossible. If a hidden spell or a play effect of a hidden permanent causes
         you to play a unit, you must choose to have that unit enter the board at that battlefield.

Tideturner

Q: What do the Hidden changes mean for Tideturner? It seems like I'm supposed to be able to choose
a unit at another location.
Tideturner is receiving minor errata, both to restrict its targeting to a unit you control and to make sure
that it can target a unit at another location under these rules.
[Last updated: 2025-11-04] - This document is now retired, please reference the Core Rules: Patch
Notes and Card Errata.
 Tideturner (revised text)

     [Hidden] (Hide now for [A] to react with later for [0].)
     When you play me, you may choose a unit you control at
     another location. Move me to its location and it to my
     original location.

Zhonya's Hourglass & Stand United

Q: What about Zhonya's Hourglass and Stand United? When they're
played from hidden, are their effects restricted to the battlefield
where they were played?
Only effects that choose are restricted. Zhonya's Hourglass saves the
next friendly unit that dies anywhere. Stand United can only give a
buff to a unit at the battlefield where it was hidden, but its other effect,
which causes buffs to grant an additional bonus, applies everywhere.
This is a change from previous rulings on these cards, intended to
simplify the question of what hidden cards can and can't do.

Zhonya's Hourglass has additional rulings and minor errata related to
saving dying units; see below.

Ava Achiever

Q: Does Ava's ability let me hide cards?
No, it lets you play cards with Hidden from your hand.

Q: What restrictions does Ava place on the card I play? What does "here" mean?
Ava's restriction of "here" is meant to apply only to units. She will receive minor errata to make this
clearer:
[Last updated: 2025-11-04] - This document is now retired, please reference the Core Rules: Patch
Notes and Card Errata.
 Ava Achiever (revised text)

     When I attack, you may pay [C] to play a card with [Hidden]
     from your hand, ignoring its cost. If it's a unit, play it here.

Pack of Wonders

Q: What can Pack of Wonders return to my hand?
Pack of Wonders can choose a friendly gear, a friendly unit, or a friendly facedown card hidden at a
battlefield. It cannot return a card with the [Hidden] keyword from anywhere else, such as a player's
trash. To make that clearer, it's receiving minor errata to say "facedown card" rather than "[Hidden]
card."
 Pack of Wonders (revised text)

     [E]: Return another friendly gear, unit, or facedown card to
     its owner's hand.

Q: Does this mean it can return a card from my deck to my hand? Those are face down...
No. (Nice try, though.) "Facedown card" always means a card that's hidden facedown on the board
unless a card's text specifies otherwise.
[Last updated: 2025-11-04] - This document is now retired, please reference the Core Rules: Patch
Notes and Card Errata.
[Last updated: 2025-11-04] - This document is now retired, please reference the Core Rules: Patch
Notes and Card Errata.

Cards that Replace Units Dying

Q: When I replace a unit's death with a card like Unlicensed Armory, does damage on the unit stay? If
the unit died to lethal damage, doesn't it just die again?
The intent behind these four cards is to save your unit from dying, whether it died due to direct kill like
Hidden Blade or due to lethal damage. To better communicate this, these cards will receive updated
wordings. Two of them, Highlander (from the Proving Grounds boxed set) and Unlicensed Armory, have
straightforward fixes, adding "heal" and listing "exhaust" and "recall" as separate actions.
 Highlander (revised text)

     [Reaction] (Play any time, even before spells and abilities
     resolve.)
     Choose a friendly unit. The next time it dies this turn, heal
     it, exhaust it, and recall it instead. (Send it to base. This
     isn't a move.)

 Unlicensed Armory (revised text)
     Discard 1, [E]: Choose a friendly unit. The next time it would
     die this turn, you may pay [C] to heal it, exhaust it, and
     recall it instead. (Send it to base. This isn't a move.)

Zhonya's Hourglass also has a slightly updated wording making it clearer that its ability applies any time
a friendly unit dies, not just on the turn you play it.
[Last updated: 2025-11-04] - This document is now retired, please reference the Core Rules: Patch
Notes and Card Errata.
 Zhonya's Hourglass (revised text)

     [Hidden] (Hide now for [A] to react with later for [0].)
     If a friendly unit would die, kill this instead. Heal that unit,
     exhaust it, and recall it. (Send it to base. This isn't a move.)

The Boss was mistakenly worded like a triggered ability. It's receiving updated wording to make it clear
that its ability is a replacement effect.
 The Boss (revised text)

     If a buffed unit you control would die, you may pay [C],
     exhaust me, and spend its buff to heal it, exhaust it, and
     recall it instead. (Send it to base. This isn't a move.)
     When you conquer, ready me.

Q: Can I use these cards to save a unit that's already in its base? What about one that's already
exhausted? If I can't recall it, do I still exhaust it?
Yes. You can save any unit that meets the description in the replacement ability's condition. For
Highlander and Unlicensed Armory, that's any friendly unit. The actions you perform on that unit as a
replacement are like the effects of a spell or ability; you'll do as much as you can: heal the unit (if it's
damaged), exhaust it (if it's ready), and recall it (if it's somewhere other than its base). And yes, you
exhaust the unit even if you don't recall it; as per the above wordings, we've changed the "recall it
exhausted" language to make that clearer.
[Last updated: 2025-11-04] - This document is now retired, please reference the Core Rules: Patch
Notes and Card Errata.

Q: If I play Cruel Patron and kill one
of my units for its additional cost,
but one of these cards replaces that
unit's death, does the cost still
count as paid?
Yes. You made the decision to pay
the cost and took the action to pay it.
What happened after that doesn't
matter.

Q: If a unit would be killed by Hidden
Blade, but one of these cards
replaces that unit's death, does the
unit's controller still draw 2?
Yes. Hidden Blade attempts to kill a
unit, then says that "its controller"
draws 2. Even if the unit doesn't die,
it's still on the board and information about its controller is still
available, so that player draws 2. This is different from Baited Hook,
which requests information about "the killed unit," and can't find any
information if no unit was actually killed.

Timing of Healing Damage at End of Combat

Q: I have Garen, Commander at a battlefield along with a Recruit
token. Thanks to Garen, the Recruit has 2 Might. My opponent's
total Might during the combat damage step is 6, so they deal 5
damage to Garen and 1 to the Recruit. Does the Recruit die?
No. Under the revised rules, combat damage is dealt, any units with
lethal damage on them are killed, and then units are immediately
healed of all damage before lethal damage is checked again.

This means that if one of your units that died was providing a Might
boost to other units, they're healed of any damage before losing that
Might boost. This is a change from previous rulings that impacts cards
including Captain Farron; Taric, Protector; Garen, Commander; and
Darius, Executioner.

Q: Does the damage from Kog'Maw's Deathknell ability happen
before or after combat damage is healed?
After. Kog'Maw, Caustic has a Deathknell ability that says "Deal 4 to all
units at my battlefield." Under the revised rules, all damage currently
on units will be healed before Kog'Maw's Deathknell ability resolves.
This does mean, however, that any units that survive his Deathknell
[Last updated: 2025-11-04] - This document is now retired, please reference the Core Rules: Patch
Notes and Card Errata.
will still have 4 damage on them after combat, and you can use a spell or another combat to finish them
off. This is a change from previous rulings.

Dealing Damage with Spells and Abilities

Unyielding Spirit

Q: What counts as "spell and ability damage?" What does this card do?
"Spell and ability damage" on Unyielding Spirit is meant to encompass damage dealt by spells and
abilities, but not damage dealt by other things as a result of spells or abilities. It will receive errata to
clarify this.

 Unyielding Spirit (revised text)
     Prevent all damage that would be dealt this turn by spells
     and abilities.

Q: So... What does this card do?
Most spells and abilities that deal damage just say "Deal 3" or similar. Unyielding Spirit stops damage
from all such spells and abilities. Other cards, though, specify a source of the damage.

     Damage dealt by spells is damage that a spell instructs you to deal without specifying that some
         other object deals it.

     Damage dealt by abilities is damage that an ability instructs you to deal without specifying that
         some other object deals it. (All damage dealt by abilities is also dealt by the object that's the
         source of the ability.)

If a spell or ability instructs a particular object to deal damage, including the card the ability is on, then
that object is dealing the damage, not the spell or ability. So Unyielding Spirit does stop damage from
Void Seeker, Stormbringer, or Yasuo, Remorseless, but does not stop damage from Challenge, Last
Breath, or Carnivorous Snapvine.

Immortal Phoenix
[Last updated: 2025-11-04] - This document is now retired, please reference the Core Rules: Patch
Notes and Card Errata.
Q: What does it mean to "kill a unit with a spell?" It seems like Hidden Blade counts, but what about a
spell that deals damage? A spell that causes a unit to deal damage? A spell that causes a unit to die
in some other way, like Stupefy on a unit that has 1 more Might than it has damage currently marked
on it?
This is unclear under existing rules, so the updated rules will clarify.
"When you kill a unit with a spell" triggers immediately after a spell
you control resolves if either of the following is true:

    1. That spell instructs you to kill a unit during its resolution, and
         that unit is put into the trash this way.

    2. A spell instructs you to deal damage to a unit during its
         resolution, and that unit is put into the trash during the cleanup
         immediately following that spell's resolution.

This includes "direct kill" spells you control like Hidden Blade. It also
includes damage spells like Void Seeker, provided they mark lethal
damage on the unit that immediately causes it to die. In all cases, the
unit has to actually die--if that death is replaced by a card like
Unlicensed Armory, then you didn't kill a unit with a spell.

Notably, the following do not count as you killing a unit with a spell:

     You are instructed to kill a unit by a spell another player controls, even if the spell instructs you to
         kill the unit (e.g., another player's Cull the Weak).

     Another player is instructed to kill a unit by a spell you control (e.g., your Cull the Weak, if you
         don't kill any of your own units with it).

     You play a spell like Challenge that causes a unit to deal lethal damage to another unit.
     You use a spell to mark damage on a unit and the unit dies later in the turn, even if that damage

         later became lethal damage for any reason.
     You use a spell to directly or indirectly lower the Might of a unit, causing damage it's already

         taken to become lethal damage. For example:
               You use a spell like Stupefy to lower the Might of a unit that has already taken damage,
                   causing that damage to become lethal damage.
               You use a spell like Charm to move a unit with damage on it away from Trifarian War
                   Camp, indirectly lowering its Might and causing that damage to become lethal damage.
               You use a spell like Rebuke to return Lee Sin, Centered to its owner's hand, indirectly
                   lowering the Might of a buffed unit at the same
                   battlefield that has damage on it, causing that damage
                   to become lethal damage.

     You do anything else with a spell that causes a unit to die in
         any other way than the two methods listed above, or at any
         time other than during or immediately after the spell's
         resolution.

     You do any of the above, but the unit doesn't actually die.
[Last updated: 2025-11-04] - This document is now retired, please reference the Core Rules: Patch
Notes and Card Errata.
Q: Can Immortal Phoenix return if it is the unit that was killed? Or if it and other units were killed at
the same time? For example, can I Hidden Blade on my own Phoenix and immediately replay it?
Yes. Triggers like this are evaluated immediately after the event that takes place, at which point Phoenix
is in the trash.

Void Gate

Q: If a spell deals damage to one or more units at Void Gate and one or more units somewhere else,
which parts of that deal Bonus Damage?
The Bonus Damage from Void Gate is only for damage being dealt to units at Void Gate. It will receive
errata to clarify this. (As a bonus, Bonus Damage will now be fully defined in the rules.)

 Void Gate (revised text)
     Spells and abilities deal 1 Bonus Damage to units here.
     (Each instance of damage the spell deals to a unit here is
     increased by 1.)

Other Cards

Darius, Trifarian

Q: If I play Darius, Trifarian as my second card in a turn, does he ready and gain 2 Might?
Yes, this works. Triggers like this are evaluated immediately after the event that takes place, at which
point Darius is on the board.

Q: If I play Darius as my third card, does he ready and gain 2 Might?
What if I play another card after him?
No. If Darius isn't present immediately after you play your second
card, he won't trigger that turn.

Hallowed Tomb

Q: Can this card only return the specific card I picked as my Chosen
Champion? What about another copy of the same card?
[Last updated: 2025-11-04] - This document is now retired, please reference the Core Rules: Patch
Notes and Card Errata.
You can return another copy of the same card. Hallowed Tomb refers to "your Chosen Champion," but
it's quite possible that you won't be able to verify whether a card in your trash is the specific card you
chose. For example, your Chosen Champion might have been played, returned to your hand, and then
discarded; you wouldn't be able to prove to your opponent that it wasn't another copy of the same card.
Because of this, the updated rules treat all copies of the card you designated as your Chosen Champion
as interchangeable.

Q: What about a different card with the same Champion tag? If Jinx,
Rebel is my Chosen Champion, can I get back a Jinx, Demolitionist,
because Jinx is my Chosen Champion?
No. You can only get back a card with the exact full card name of the
one you chose at the start of the game.

Karma, Channeler

Q: Does Karma trigger off of recycling runes?
No. When the text of Riftbound cards refers to "cards," it means Main Deck cards only. Karma's
reminder text reflects this.

Q: Does Karma trigger off of recycling cards into other players' Main Deck due to a card like
Sabotage?
No. The updated rules will clarify that regardless of who is instructed to do the recycling in card text,
players always recycle their own cards. To reflect this, Karma is receiving errata.
[Last updated: 2025-11-04] - This document is now retired, please reference the Core Rules: Patch
Notes and Card Errata.

 Karma, Channeler (revised text)

     [Vision] (When you play me, look at the top card of your
     Main Deck. You may recycle it.)
     When you recycle one or more cards to your Main Deck,
     buff a friendly unit. (If it doesn't have a buff, it gets a +1 [M]
     buff.)
[Last updated: 2025-11-04] - This document is now retired, please reference the Core Rules: Patch
Notes and Card Errata.

Sun Disc

Q: Can I use Sun Disc's ability the turn I play it, counting itself for its
Legion ability?
Yes. Although Legion normally requires "another" card for spells and
play effects, Sun Disc's activated ability is not Sun Disc. On
subsequent turns, you'll need to play another card to turn on Legion.

Symbol of the Solari

Q: What does it mean for combat to be a "tie?"
The updated rules will more clearly define what it means to win, lose,
or tie a combat.

     A player wins a combat if only their units are present after
         combat damage has been dealt.

     A player loses a combat if the other player in combat still has
         units present and they do not (ie, if the other player wins).

     A combat ends in a tie if either:
               Neither player has units left at the battlefield (e.g. they all died to combat damage).
               Both players have units left at the battlefield (e.g. one or more units was ineligible to deal
                   or receive combat damage--stunned units, Kayn, etc).

Winning a combat is not the same as conquering, although ordinarily the attacking player must win in
order to conquer. Either the attacker or the defender can win, and each combat either ends in a tie, or
has exactly one winner and one loser.

When combat ends in a tie, all attacking units are recalled to their base and the defender retains control
of the battlefield. This doesn't cause the defender to win the combat; it's too late for that.

Q: Does Symbol of the Solari recall all units everywhere?
No, just the units that were involved in the tie. It's receiving minor errata to clarify this.
[Last updated: 2025-11-04] - This document is now retired, please reference the Core Rules: Patch
Notes and Card Errata.
 Symbol of the Solari (revised text)

     If a combat where you are the attacker ends in a tie that
     would recall any of your units, recall all units at that
     battlefield instead. (Send them to base. This isn't a move.
     Ties are calculated after combat damage is dealt.)

Q: So what does Symbol of the Solari do?
Symbol of the Solari has a replacement effect that applies to a combat if 1) you are the attacker, and 2)
the combat ends in a tie because both players have units remaining. Ordinarily this would result in your
units being recalled and the defender retaining control, but Symbol of the Solari instead causes all units
at that battlefield to be recalled, leaving the battlefield open and uncontested.

Teemo, Strategist

Q: What does this card do, and when can it do it? If I play him from Hidden during combat, does his
ability trigger twice?
We're issuing a rules update that changes how Teemo and other defend and attack triggers work, and
we're issuing a minor errata for Teemo in accordance with it. We're also clarifying what his ability does
and how many targets it has. This contradicts some previous guidance we've given on this card, as
we've examined what it says, what it's intended to do, and what our rules can support.

Teemo has a "when I defend" trigger. Under previous rules, attack and defend triggers happened only
at the beginning of combat. Teemo's dual trigger condition was meant to cover this--he either triggered
at the beginning of combat, or he triggered when you played him into combat.
[Last updated: 2025-11-04] - This document is now retired, please reference the Core Rules: Patch
Notes and Card Errata.
 Teemo, Strategist (revised text)

     [Hidden] (Hide now for [A] to react with later for [0].)
     When I defend, choose an enemy unit here and reveal the
     top 5 cards of your Main Deck. Deal 1 to that unit for each
     card with [Hidden] revealed this way, then recycle the
     revealed cards.

Under the updated rules, attack and defend triggers trigger any time a unit becomes an attacker or
defender--whether that's because combat began, because the unit was moved into combat using a
spell or ability, or because the unit was played into combat somehow. (And yes, this means that a unit
that starts in combat, moves out somehow, and then moves back can trigger these abilities twice. We
think this is fine--moving a unit at Action speed isn't easy to do, and doing it twice is even harder, so we
don't mind there being a substantial reward.)

One thing to note about this change that doesn't apply to Teemo directly: Assault and Shield are not
attack or defend triggers, so they'll work the same way they did before. They apply while a unit is an
attacker or defender in combat as appropriate, stop applying once the unit is no longer in combat, and
start applying if it joins or rejoins combat partway through.

This rules change makes the "played from [Hidden]" part of Teemo's text redundant. And since the
ability only does anything if enemy units are present, we're issuing errata to clarify that it only triggers
once as intended, whether Teemo is played into combat or was there from the start. We're also
rephrasing the ability to make it clearer that it only has one target.

Q: How many enemy units do I target with Teemo, and when do I choose them?
Teemo has only a single target, an enemy unit, chosen when his triggered ability is placed on the chain.
That ability will deal a variable amount of damage to that unit based on how many units with Hidden you
reveal. This is a change from previous rulings.

Q: Which cards count for Teemo? Does Ember Monk count? What about Noxus Saboteur?
Teemo counts cards that have the Hidden keyword, but not cards that mention Hidden but don't actually
have it. Ember Monk and Noxus Saboteur do not have the Hidden keyword.

Wraith of Echoes

Q: Does Wraith of Echoes trigger on its own death?
[Last updated: 2025-11-04] - This document is now retired, please reference the Core Rules: Patch
Notes and Card Errata.
No. Units don't "see" themselves die unless they have an ability such as Deathknell that explicitly allows
them to. For clarity, we are issuing an errata that adds the word "another" to Wraith of Echoes.

 Wraith of Echoes (revised text)
     The first time another friendly unit dies each turn, draw 1.

Q: What about other units that die at the same time as Wraith of Echoes, such as to a mass damage
spell like Unchecked Power?
A: No. Units that die also don't "see" anything else that dies at the same time they do.
Q: What happens if the first time a unit dies in a turn is actually two or more units dying
simultaneously? Does it trigger twice?
A: Just once. If an ability triggers "the first time" something happens and that trigger condition is met
multiple times simultaneously, you'll pick one to count as the first.

Appendix: Targeting

This section features a full breakdown of the rules for what constitutes a target. As we said above, most
things that are affected by a spell or ability are targets.
An object or player mentioned in a spell or ability is a target if all of the following are true:

    1. something publicly visible to all players;
    2. that you and you alone choose;
    3. that isn't part of a targeting restriction, cost, trigger condition, replacement effect, or an action

         that "must" be taken.
Breaking that down a bit:
1) "Something publicly visible to all players" means a player, or a game object that's in a zone whose
information level is Public.
[Last updated: 2025-11-04] - This document is now retired, please reference the Core Rules: Patch
Notes and Card Errata.

     For example, a unit on the board, a spell on the chain, a card in the trash, or a player can all be
         targets.

     A card in your hand cannot be a target, because it's not in a Public zone. If you're required to
         choose a card in your hand, you'll do it as the spell or ability resolves.

     A facedown card at a battlefield can be a target, because while the card's face is Private
         information, its presence as a facedown card in that zone is Public.

     "You may play a unit from your hand, ignoring its costs" doesn't have a target; "You may play a
         unit from your trash, ignoring its costs" targets a unit in your trash.

2) "That you and you alone choose" means two things:
     First, it excludes choices that are made in whole or in part by other players, like the units killed by
         Cull the Weak. Cull the Weak doesn't have any targets, because you're instructed to kill a unit as
         part of an instruction for all players to choose and kill a unit.
     Second, it excludes anything that is not a choice. Some examples: something that affects "all"
         objects that meet some set of criteria (no choice to be made because all of them are affected); a
         reference to "[something's] controller" (no choice to be made because it only has one
         controller); or a reference to "your legend" (because you can only have one legend).
     This exception does not apply to things that are currently the only legal option for what would
         otherwise be a choice; for example, a spell that says "Kill an enemy unit" always targets that
         enemy unit, even if it's currently the only enemy unit on the board.

3) "that isn't part of a targeting restriction, cost, trigger condition, replacement effect, or an action that
`must' be taken" means that an object isn't a target just because it's mentioned in text, it has to be acted
upon directly or instructed to act by the spell or ability's instructions.

     "Targeting restriction" excludes objects that are mentioned in order to identify other targets. A
         spell that refers to a "unit at a battlefield" targets the unit, but not the battlefield.

     "Cost" excludes anything that's listed before the colon in an activated ability or as part of an
         additional cost. Cruel Patron's additional cost and Malzahar's activated ability don't have any
         targets. They are chosen as the card or ability is placed on the chain, but that's because they're
         costs, not because they're targets.

     "Trigger condition" excludes anything that's identified as part of a triggered ability's conditions;
         "When an enemy unit attacks, give it -1 Might this turn." doesn't have any targets.

     "Replacement effect" excludes anything that is part of the condition or the effect of a
         replacement effect. A hypothetical card that said "The next time a friendly unit would die, you
         may kill another friendly unit instead" wouldn't target anything; it would apply the next time any
         friendly unit died, and you could choose to kill any other friendly unit without it being a target
         either. If it instead said "Choose a friendly unit. The next time it would die...", then it would target
         a specific unit, and would look for the next time that unit died.

     Actions that "must" be taken are a new category to handle cards like Sigil of the Storm. It
         excludes only units that use this wording, and its purpose is to make sure that we can make
         cards that require something to happen and make sure it actually does.
